# GitHub

### Setting up GitHub
- Register for GitHub using this URL: https://github.com/join
- Follow the prompts to input your email, password, and username.
- Next create a repository by going to the card in the top left and inputting a name for the repository then clicking the green "create new reposity" 
button. For this class, it is best to create a public repository so that other classmates can see it.
- Next, click "uploading an existing file" and select the file we created last class. 
- Once you are finished, you can send me the url for your repository and I will add it to the course so others can see your code. 

### Using Git with GitHub
- **git clone:** In the command line you can clone a repository onto your computer by typing `git clone repositoryURL`. Where `repositoryURL` is the URL for cloning the repository. You can find this URL on your GitHub page. 
- **git add:** Once you have cloned your repository on your computer, you can make changes to the files. Then when you want to add your changes you can use the command `git add .`. This will add all the files to staging where they are ready to be committed. 
- **git commit:** Committing the changes is where you actually add the changes to the previous version with a short description of the changes. You do this by running the code `git commit -m "Your message here."`
- **git push:** To get your changes onto the repository in GitHub where everyone can access it, you must "push" it. To push run `git push`. 
- **git pull:** When others make changes in the repository and you want to get caught up, you can run `git pull` to pull down the changes others have made. 
- **git branch:** If you want to make a branch off of your code to develop a feature without affecting the main code, you can run `git branch BranchName`. This will create a copy of your current branch so that you can make your changes there. 
- **git checkout:** To move between branches you can run `git checkout BranchName` to change into the branch with the name "BranchName"
- **git merge:** If you ever want the code of your branch to be reintegrated back into the main code, you can use the merge command. For example to merge branch "Feature1" into the "main" branch you can run `git merge Feature1` from the "main" branch

### Set global username on Git
To set your global username/email configuration:
Open the command line.
Set your username: git config --global user.name "FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME"
Set your email address: git config --global user.email "MY_NAME@example.com"


### Using GitHub
- **Adding issues:** In the top of the GitHub page, you should see "Code", "Issues", "Pull requests", etc. tabs. If you click on the "Issues" tab you can raise an issue with the content. For example in this course you can give any general recommendations through the "Issues" tab.
- **Forking:** When you go to a file in a repository, you can press the edit icon on the top right. This will create a fork of the repository. Once the repository is forked, you can make suggested changes which the repository owner can accept if they choose to. For example, in this course, if you find a typo, you can make a fork and suggest a change fixing the typo. Then I can see that suggestion and accept.
- **Seeing Changes:** In the repository page, each file has three pieces of information. The left side says the name of the file, the middle says a comment on the last change to that file, and the right says when that change was made. You can see the changes by clicking on the note on the change in the middle. To see a list of all changes in the folder, click the "History" button on the top right of the page.
