# Objects

This page is under construction, but will include information about what objects are and how to create/use them.

Objects are variables that include two types of data: properties and methods. Properties are aspects of the object while methods are functions associated with the object. For example, if we are a SaaS (Software as a Service) company, we may have a customer object. This object can have properties such as Name, Email, and SubscribedServices. The object may also have methods such as updateEmail(), subscribeToService(), and unsubscribeFromService(). 

Objects are encapsolated by `{}` brackets. Inside each object, methods and properties are of the form: `propertyName: propertyValue` or `methodName: methodFunction()`. Properties and methods can be called by writing the object name followed by a period and the property or method name. Let's make a simple customer object with just a few properties to see how this works.

    let Mike = {
      Name: "Mike",
      Email: "MikesFakeEmail@gmail.com",
      Age: 18, 
      Services: ["Calendar", "Email", "ToDo"]
    }

    function email(Customer) {
      //In reality this section would be used to send the email, but here it is just a placeholder
      console.log(Customer.Name + " has been emailed at email address: " + Customer.Email)
    }

    function listServices(Customer) {
      console.log(Customer.Name + "'s Services:")
      for(let Service of Customer.Services){
        console.log(Service)
      }
    }

    email(Mike);
    listServices(Mike);
    

Now in your command line run `node program.js` to run your code.

Output: 

`Mike has been emailed at email address: MikesFakeEmail@gmail.com`

`Mike's Services:`

`Calendar`

`Email`

`ToDo`




