## What benefit do we get from learning code?

1. Code is used in every part of our life and understanding how that code is made and used by us is helpful for better understanding our world.
1. Code can make many jobs easier. Often having a basic understanding of what code can do can save many hours of effort, even if you aren't the one to write the code.
2. Writing code can get you a good job or at least boost your resume since people respect the ability to code.

#### Why do you want to learn about coding? What will you use it for?

### My hope for the class

My hope is that you find the content useful, interesting, and fun. I want to help you get the skills and knowledge to get some personal benefit from an understanding of code. I also want to make the process enjoyable and help you work through some of the difficult aspects of coding and getting started.

### Class Philosophy 

1. **This class is for you.** If you don't like any part or feel it is unhelpful, just don't do it or tune out. You have no obligation to me as the teacher.
2. **You are smart.** If you don't understand something it is my fault. Don't hesitate to point out anything difficult or confusing, this will allow me to improve the course and learn with you.
3. **We are open.** We are encouraged to share our work and questions with the class perferably in writting on GitHub. Everyone and everything is a work in progress. We are encouraged to give feedback and receive feedback gracefully so that we can continually be growing.

